While it's generally don't give access to
transaction information beyond the ones you made personally,
but using the debug console,
you can explore details of transactions from across the entire network.
In this video, we'll cover three helpful commands related to
transactions that you can perform in the Bitcoin Core debug console.
The commands we'll cover are
getchain transactions stats, getrawtransaction, and listtransaction.
Transactions are at the core of everything that happens on the blockchain,
and getting access to this information will be invaluable as you
begin putting this type of functionality into your blockchain applications.
To start, let's look at getchain transaction stats.
Getchain transactions stat or getchaintxstats
returns compute statistics about the total number and rate of transactions in the chain.
This is a great way to get an overview of
all transactions that are happening on the blockchain.
Using the help function,
you'll see that this returns information like the time,
transaction count, block count and other statistics about transactions.
Now, try running this command in your console by typing getchaintxstats.
We can see that the timestamp of the final block is here,
there are this many transactions and there's
about this many transactions made per second.
Next, let's look at getrawtransaction.
Getrawtransaction allows you to look at the details of any raw transaction data.
A raw transaction is a transaction that is formatted to be readable by computers.
It follows the rules of the Bitcoin protocol to process
the human readable transaction and turn it into
a single value that can be interpreted by a computer.
Having access to raw transaction data is
the first step towards being able to create or manipulate these transactions.
Let's look at the details of this command using the help function.
As you can see, to run this command,
you'll need to provide a transaction ID. Let's try that.
A quick note on this command is that it
defaults to accepting transactions and the mem pool.
So, to get our mem pool transaction,
we can type in getrawmempool.
From this list of hashes,
pick one as the input for getrawtransaction.
Now, type getrawtransaction, paste in
the transaction id and follow this with the word true.
Using true, allows you to see more information about the transaction.
When you're done, run this command and see what you get.
What you'll see first is just a huge string of
numbers containing information like the hash,
version, size, and other useful details.
This is a lot of information, so if you'd like,
pause the video and take a look before we move on.
For our last command,
let's look at listtransactions.
Like you might expect,
this gives us a list of transactions for a given account.
This is helpful if you ever want to explore
transactions that have been made by a given user,
or if you want to present this data to a user with your application.
Using the help function,
you can see this returns the account, address,
category, amount or other details about a given set of transaction information.
You can provide this command arguments like the account,
total count of transactions,
and any transactions you'd like to skip.
To run this command,
type listtransactions into the console and what you'll get
back is a list of all the transactions for the account you specify.
The default is your own account,
and I don't have any transactions on this account,
so it's just showing up as an empty array.
Yours may also be blank but once you start working with transactions,
this empty array should start to fill up.
To quickly recap, we discussed
three helpful commands you can use to explore transaction information.
These commands were getchaintransactionstats, getrawtransaction and listtransactions.
These commands will be very valuable as you start working with
transactions while building your blockchain applications.